okay folks welcome back this teaching is
going to be specifically dealing with
trade psychology and affective
journaling okay trade psychology
ineffective journaling the points of
focus in this module major psychological
barriers and my personal opinion in
solutions for overcoming them and
effective journaling how journaling can
assist your development
okay so major psychological barriers the
first on our list is the fear of missing
moves
I believe this personally is rooted in
not fully understanding what your setup
is now you see this glibly tossed about
in seminars webinars videos whatever it
is folks that are teaching today many of
them aren't even you know qualified to
be in the role of a teacher in my
opinion but we'll leave that for another
discussion the fear of missing moves is
rooted in your unique setup now every
trader is gonna have their specific
setup it may or may not have an
indicator I personally don't believe
that indicators should be a part of your
trading but that's just my personal
taste my faith in price action is
sufficient enough but if you have a tool
if you have a method if you will that
relies on an indicator to give you that
buy or sell decision for you then
whatever it is you need to stick with it
and know that that's the one you're
going to trade if you have defined that
setup in a written form in other words a
trading plan you're not going to have
many times that same feeling a neophyte
trader or a lesser organised trader
would have
now it doesn't mean that we're going to
be profitable it just means that we're
not going to be fearing missing a move
because once you understand this setup
the setup should be directly linked to
time and price there should be a time
when this setup forms and there should
be a consistency to it if your pattern
doesn't have that and it's rather
ambiguous or untimely you don't know
when it's going to happen then you
probably don't have a valid set up and
you're gonna have hit and miss results
and when it wins you're going to falsely
attributed to your setup when it's
really just randomness so to overcome
fear of missing moves is obviously to
have a well-defined plan and what your
setup is knowing it intimately will keep
you far less anxious about missing a
move because you'll know when they're
most likely going to form this is why I
use kill zones this time element of the
trading day I know what I'm looking for
I know my setup and if I know what time
it should occur I know when what days of
the week it should form and I know it
should be either a bullish model or
bearish model I'm not anxious about
missing a move even if I do miss that
trade I know when the next one's going
to form most neophyte or novice traders
do not have that luxury they're on the
seat of their pants all the time not
knowing when it's going to happen or
what it is it's supposed to happen at
all for them to take a trade fear of
losing well this one's going to have you
looking for systems to have high
accuracy and there's not a real need for
high accuracy it's wonderful to have it
but the fear of losing comes by not
having a plan and if you don't have a
plan if you don't have a method that
seemed consistency in hindsight and back
testing and then walk forward with it
seeing it working and in having
momentary lapses of accuracy you will
not
have the wherewithal that's necessary to
do what is necessary as a trader that
means embrace uncertainty the ability to
do this is not going to be for everyone
and there's going to be a fine line
between those individuals that hit this
wall that every one of us will hit and
we had to determine for ourselves if
this is really right for us and for some
of you it isn't no one's gonna be able
to make a decision before you but it's
important that you understand that there
is always that element if you're a new
developing trader and you're unproven it
may be that trading isn't for you you
would have to more or less rely on
someone else to do the trading for you
or don't rate it at all but if you're
gonna trade you can't fear taking a loss
fearing a loss is many times directly
linked to over leveraging and/or over
trading both of those two elements are
very easily fixed lower your leverage
and you won't be so fearful about taking
a loss because it won't hurt you so many
times in a row if you have a losing
streak if you slow your frequency down
in terms of your over trading again even
if you're not trading a high accuracy
method or setup the high frequency won't
be quickly eroding your equity very
simple solutions to an otherwise rather
routine problem that comes up in many
traders impatience between setups this
is going to come by way of infancy as a
trader especially if you have a setup
that is profitable and you can be well
organized you could have a well-groomed
money management strategy and you know
what your setup is but you're impatient
and waiting for it or you see the setup
forming but you're trying to get in just
before you're really supposed to in
other words you're looking for a
specific level you're looking
the 50 level to be buying it and it's
flirting with 65 and you just can't
stand it he's got to get in that's going
to be dealt with over time and forging
discipline by following the rules in
your method the problem is is you don't
have the time killing it enough in the
experience trading to know what this is
going to require of you and you're going
to have many times previous exposure
either by demo preferably or if you
eventually go into live trading which I
don't ever try to tell anybody to do
that because it's a decision you're
gonna make on your own if you ever do it
at all but if you find success that
feeling or that rush you get when you
make a profitable decision you want to
have it right away as quickly as
possible and many times immediately as
soon as you close the trade or it hit
your limit order and you're out with a
profit another demo or live worst-case
scenario it's alive you're going to want
to go right back in again and you're
going to jump in before your setups
you're going to take things that aren't
necessarily aren't your setups and I can
tell you as a commodity trader when I
had initial luck back in the early 90s I
would have an idea what I wanted to
trade but I would also feel that impulse
to want to get back in and be a winner
again so I would look at the market and
say okay well that's not my setup but I
still think it's gonna go up and I would
buy it I had no idea what I was doing
but I still sir come to that impulse
that hey look you know I need to be
doing something cuz I'm sitting in from
the charts and I want to feel good again
so let me roll the dice and see what
happens that impatience comes by way of
your infancy and your lack of experience
experience is going to teach you one of
two things one that losing sucks and
it's better that you tried not to lose
too much when you do lose or experience
it's gonna teach you that you're not
perfect so therefore you have to wait
for the best scenarios for your quote
unquote luck to be in
favor we don't know if our setups going
to be accurate but we also don't know if
our cells are going to come when we are
expecting them to so forcing it or
jumping ahead and more or less
anticipating the setup whereas we're
interested in next move in price
that's what trading is it's a
statistical guess now with that there's
a measure of uncertainty and that
uncertainty and the weighting side of
trading it's just like a Water Torture
okay it's you can't stand it especially
if you're sitting in from the charts you
just want to get into getting a trade
already and accept the wider risk if you
need it
and that's wrong you don't want to do
that demand your price demand your setup
and by doing so you'll combat that
impatience that resides between setups
that novice traders always feel fear of
not being good enough well this is a
byproduct of being on social media
everyone's gonna be better than the next
guy or they're gonna be trained by the
person that's leading the pack or they
themselves are you know the rock star if
you are not equipped to handle the
tomfoolery that takes place on social
media like Facebook and Twitter and
Instagram it's probably better for you
not to be on it now I understand that I
have a online presence on Twitter and I
have a Facebook and I have a YouTube
channel but I have a thick skin and I
like to engage other traders because I
like the feedback I like to see what
their responses will be and I just like
the engage so if you are quickly feeling
like you are not sufficient or your
learning speed is not up to snuff in
terms of what you've seen other people
and many times what you see online
they're lying anyway they may say they
have their things together
they're all you know completely figured
it all out in terms of what they're
doing many times the ones that are
saying that aren't really as astute as
they claim to be and they're trying to
fake it until they make it so don't let
it wear on you to too much or make you
feel like you're insignificant in terms
of where you're at in your development
because your report card on your own
results as you'll hear me refer to in
the journaling section of this video
that's the only opinion that matters
it's not mine or anyone elses that
matters it's are you seeing development
progress and by measuring that and by
keeping tabs in that in terms of your
journal
that's the scorecard that really matters
and obviously knew your bottom the
bottom line that's the one that really
makes the case for whether or not you're
developing so fear of not being good
enough is simply a game that's between
your ears it's all a trap so don't think
about being on social media don't engage
other people because if you're
developing sure the worst thing you can
do for you men is to go into this
armwrestling match about you know what's
better who's better
how much is you know a good amount and
what you should be making in terms of
pips all that stuff is the goes back to
the proverbial measuring contest you
know who's the bigger man and it's not
about who's the bigger man it's about
surviving long enough so that way you
can appreciate and develop as a traitor
fear of losing streaks and drawdown well
this is going to be directly related to
money management and if you're afraid of
taking losses in any set or series and
or fear drawdown it's because you have
no process or protocol in place or what
you would reach for should you have a
loss or a losing streak develop I've
given you a teaching to help you
flatline your your losses that way it
removes the effects of drawdown in your
losing trades and by implementing
something as simple as that quickly
changes your perspective on
fear and anxiety about taking losses or
a single string of losses lack of
discipline and following roles well it's
in our nature to be human and I've said
this many times if the sign says don't
walk on the grass your first impulse is
gonna be what I'm gonna tap-dance all
over that look just like your children
you know god bless them you know I have
four boys and I have literally watched
them do these very same things that they
should know not to do but they still do
it well with an account with money or a
demo we do those same things we know we
shouldn't be doing something but because
there's an opportunity to do it and
there's really no one keeping you from
doing it you end up doing it as soon as
you into the trade or mess around with
your trade like you shouldn't as soon as
you do it that little voice in your head
says I should not be doing this or don't
do this but you ignore it you want to
see what's gonna happen and if you want
to experiments okay do it somewhere else
not in the marketplace but you have to
have discipline and you have to have
rules and when those rules are made you
have to stick to them do not deviate
from them and over time this Forge is
discipline and it'll also serve you well
because you're going to have periods of
drawdown
you're going to have periods of losing
trades and if you don't have the
discipline to stick to doing the very
things that will eventually lead to
longevity in this business you're not
gonna fare well so discipline comes by
forcing yourself to follow a set of
rules and those rules have to be rigid
they have to be concise detailed and not
ambiguous they're very binary in the
sense that you do this or you do that or
you do nothing at all and they have to
be three conditions for every
decision-making process either it's a go
it's a no or you sit still and you don't
do anything
searching for the next best thing I
think this is one of the biggest
problems if you just look at Twitter
whoever is hot right now whoever's got
the most attention by everyone
that's where everyone's gonna flock okay
and it's always been like that not just
in trading but in anything okay
whoever's barking loudest draws the
biggest crowd now whether or not they
have anything to say once the crowd gets
there that remains to be seen but you
can see how folks that are in love with
one concept or one guru or method this
month will change teams and go somewhere
else in the thought process thinking
that this is the better way of doing it
or this is something different in it's
an amplification of something and I have
learned that there's nothing really
better for me as a trader so therefore I
don't look anymore I know everything I
need to know in terms of price action
the open high low and close tells me
everything I need there isn't anything
out there that entices me personally and
like the Bible said there's nothing new
Under the Sun so if I have arrived at
something that makes sense for me even
if it's not perfect I don't need perfect
but I know I have a statistical edge in
the things that I do they're highly
accurate they're very precise and
they're time-based
I know when my setup is going to form
you if you were able to pull the
majority of individuals that were
trading any asset class if they could
set a time on when their next I was
gonna be Dober 90% would say I don't
think so I don't think I could do that
that's why trading is uncertain
to me it's not because I know what time
they certain things should happen I know
what days of the week certain things
should happen so therefore I'm not
anxious about women next so it's going
to be I don't care about missing a move
in fact it's fruitful for you to take
vacation time scheduled time away from
the marketplace and do that and I would
suggest to do that even more so if
you're hot right now
if you're
really really well best thing you can do
is forge development in terms of your
discipline and also your experience
force yourself as FK I'm taking a break
now I've been killing it I got 25
winning trades in a row or whatever it
would be I'm gonna stop trading it'll
take a week off don't even look at the
marketplace you're gonna want to look at
it but don't by doing that you're gonna
prove yourself there's nothing better
than the thing you're doing right now
because you understand it doesn't have
to be my material if you found something
in another discipline that you've really
gravitated towards and it made sense for
you to use it great that's awesome
that's all it matters is that you find
something that you can make a wager on
and then wager that with sound money
management because ultimately no matter
whether we're talking about order blocks
or ICT breakers or anything else that's
out there
none of that stuff really makes price
move and we can't control price once
we're in the trade once we're in the
market all of the control the steering
wheel is not ours now the markets
driving what we're going to see in terms
of profit or loss so understanding that
everyone's gonna have losing trades and
the first thing that happens is folks
that go through a losing streak and the
experienced drawdown then they show
their lack of discipline and following
rules so they think there's something
better out there okay something easy or
something that doesn't have losing
streaks everything has losing streaks
folks believe me
everything does no one stays hot or the
top forever and there's always going to
be some measure or drawdown and whatever
system or method you're using so the
best thing you can do is find something
that works enough time to warrant
investigation and stick with it you
sound money management and you can turn
it into something really impressive and
you may in surprise yourself okay
effective journaling
about doing journals every single day I
make a journal entry in my personal
journals at the end of the week usually
it's on a Saturday I do a weekly vlog in
my personal performance and what I have
seen happen in the previous week more or
less I'm reviewing the total weeks range
I do this on the two pairs that I trade
which is predominantly the euro dollar
and the cable pound dollar I don't do a
lot of trading in a lot of other payers
if I want to be a deviant I will trade
sometimes the Canadian dollar or the
Aussie dollar but generally that's about
it I don't like to do anything more than
that and the reason why is because I
actually spent a lot of time planning
and investigating certain setups and
things I'm looking at and I want to go
through that time and use that time the
most economical way I can and I don't
want to be doing that with 28 pairs so
if I'm going to put the time into doing
a sound top-down analysis and/or review
of my own setups if I'm following 28
pairs can you realistically do that
every single day you're never gonna have
any time to do anything else so I have a
life to live and I can find all the
setups I'll ever want to find in these
two pairs in fact I could just trade one
but because they're closely correlated
and it fits my model as far as a
short-term and day trader I look at both
euro dollar and cable and if I want to
find something else that may or may not
have a set up in a cable or fiber then
I'll trade like I said the loonie or the
Aussie but I tried to make a daily entry
whether I take a trade or not and I give
myself an opportunity to stay in a
routine but every single week I'm doing
a complete review of the weekly
performance as my trader half of me has
performed and then the analyst half of
me so I'm always giving a voice to the
two people
that reside in me just like you oh you
all are going to be looked at internally
as a traitor but there's actually an
analyst inside of you too and there's
also a gambler so you have to figure out
who's in control at the time when you're
doing the trading and many times you
don't see it before you do into the
trade you always see it after the trade
ok the ones that paint out really really
well and you're not feeling a lot of
exposure to uncertainty or fear and
anxiety generally you're gonna find that
that's going to be the analyst because
they're focusing on the numbers and
they're not really worried about it the
person that finds themselves excited
about the results many times no they're
good or I guess the adverse side of
things they're weighing things in terms
of the outcome that's the trader and
then you have the gambler where they're
impulsive they're doing things that are
undisciplined and they're pushing more
leverage than they should that's the one
you want to keep your eye on ok the
gambler is going to get you in trouble
the trader will take care of himself
because the analyst will speak to that
side of you to your conscience but you
want to reside in the mindset of the
analyst sticking to what you see in the
chart sticking to what your process is
your your model ok the analyst is what's
going to keep you on the right path that
formation that makes a trader is it's
made up of three people but you're all
the same person the analyst generally
they're the ones that are most sober
minded the trader is the one that wants
the opportunity and the right or wrong
measurement but then you have the
gambler who wants the thrill of it all
and it's also going to be the person
that takes the hardest in terms of the
grief that comes when there's a losing
trade and that part of you is gonna
always be negative it's going to be well
it's not my fault it's something else
that call
that the gambler is only gonna be
worrying about when it was right and
when they made money or when you made
money when it was in your favor that's
when you want consider it but when it
isn't making money for you the gamblers
gonna cry it's gonna manifest itself
into a spoiled perspective toxic
thinking so you kind of like want to
keep that side of you on a short leash
and you don't want to allow it to
manifest itself in your journaling how
you felt going into the trading day is
really important
there were times in my life as a trader
that my oldest son would have to go into
surgery and I wish I would have stayed
out of the market those days because I
was already anxious I was already
nervous about the outcome of the surgery
so those are days that I wish I would
have had the discipline to not trade but
because I was feeling anxious and
helpless because I couldn't do anything
to fix my son's ailment I would try to
satisfy my anxiety by having a win
because even if I made a hundred bucks
doing something in the marketplace it
would keep me distracted from what I was
feeling in my personal life so you're
gonna see that you're losing trades are
going to be directly related to things
that are going on in your personal life
and the only way you're gonna see that
trend or that truism is if you go
through your journal and you index all
of your trades based on a negative
mindset or if you're sick if you're
physically ill probably not a good idea
to trade if you have a migraine like I
have migraine sometimes and I have made
the mistake of sometimes still time to
take control of her because there's
nothing worse than feeling like your
head's gonna explode and I already have
sensitive eyes so I can't look at the
chart long to follow out what is the
best procedure for me right now should I
stick with the trade should I move my
stuff should I do anything with it when
it would be better for me just to not to
be in it at all
and just relax and go to a quiet dark
place and
Allisyn just relax and let my migraine
take care of itself so how you feel okay
and this is not only physically but how
you feel emotionally did you just have a
death in the family we're seeing in the
world you can do is medicate yourself by
rolling the dice you know you just have
loss in your family or you and your
spouse you're separating god forbid or
something terrible happens okay you
don't want to open yourself up to
gambling okay because that's what's
going to become in those environments
you want to be relaxed you want to have
a neutral mindset going in you want to
feel healthy it's why it's important to
have a good exercise program good
healthy diet and staying active and
stretching out and giving yourself
hobbies outside of trading because you
want to have a fresh perspective you
want to have a alert mind you want to
have a healthy fed body going into the
marketplace with a sickly unrest 'add
which I didn't enter me for but sleep is
important you need to have it especially
if you have jobs and businesses you need
to recuperate I've been blessed and I
have to need those things because I'm
home most of the time doing whatever I
want to do so sleep for me isn't as
needed versus someone that has a
business and you know doing all these
things or has a job and they have to
commute I mean commuting alone okay if
you're rushing home from your job you
know and you had a bad experience on the
road you're angry so what are you gonna
do you're gonna want to take it out on
the marketplace you're you're upset so
you're looking to have that replaced by
some kind of a feel-good feeling and
what better feeling is there is to make
money okay it's like there's a lottery
so you're gonna do things that you
shouldn't do because you're acting
impulsively because of the way you feel
so it's important that you always be
honest with yourself when you journal I
always give myself an opportunity to
debrief okay and also release those
things and it's almost therapeutic
because you know what you're doing is
the wrong thing when you do it and
you're acting impulsively because you
want to have a different feeling than
whatever it is that's bothering you okay
if you're stressed if you're worried if
you're angry you just want to replace
that with something okay and since we're
traders we can clearly see that there is
a reason to expect a market to go up or
down so all we have to do is roll the
dice and just gamble and see what's
gonna happen and our attention will be
diverted from whatever the things that
we are stressing over or anxious about
or mad about or sad about or fearful of
all those stimuli will be replaced by
I'm in a trade and I made the mistake of
doing that as a young man and it filled
my head up with all the wrong things as
a trader so the way you want to avoid
that is be sober-minded going into the
trade and also know what it is you're
feeling at the end of the day when
you're done trading you want to put that
into word and write it out and be honest
not if you know you were angry at your
spouse or if you angry at your your
child or if you're worried about
something that's taking place if you
have a job you're if you're anxious
about losing your job or if you're angry
that someone else got a promotion that
you didn't get okay
make sure that you do that in your
journal by allowing it to come out
because if you don't release it and put
it in your journal where you can see it
in text read it and release it if you
don't do that you're gonna harbor it and
it's going to become cancerous to you as
a trader it's going to infect your mind
it's going to infect your your
performance and it's not going to always
be what you want okay it's going to be
many times the opposite of what you're
expecting it's going to have an adverse
effect on your overall development
anyone record any of your concerns or
fears that you had while you're watching
price action so if you're in a trade or
not in the trade whenever you feel a
sense of anxiousness or not trusting to
set up the
our beautiful opportunities for you to
learn because that's when you want to be
doing screen captures okay if you're in
front of the charge you have the luxury
of being able to do that
screen capture that very moment and then
in your chart you want to make a
notation of what you're feeling and what
you're thinking at that time you may be
feeling that it's getting go up but it's
retraced a little bit deeper than you
thought and you're starting to have
anxiety about it it may not pan out
that's a time when you want to screen
capture and make that notation and log
that keep that as part of your journal
entry each time you do this you're gonna
find that you're gonna find less
sensitivity or emotional attachment to
these ideas because you've been there
before
and yes you see that there may be a
opportunity for the trade this you know
to fail and hit your stop-loss
but if you stick with it how many times
did it really actually go there and
that's the benefit of keeping a journal
because unless you write the things down
and keep a journal of what the charge
looks like and what you were thinking
you're never going to remember them
you're gonna remember that really good
trade and you're gonna try to forget
with all of your energy and effort a
night to forget those trades that you
should have never been in you knew you
were getting into it and you should have
never done it and now you're gonna do
your best to try to avoid it and and
forget that ever happened and they're
your lessons that see what you want to
learn from so journaling is absolutely
crucial to your development as a trader
especially if you want to be organized
and you want to be collective and calm
about what you're doing that only comes
by doing this exercise here journaling
every professional whether it be a
doctor or a lawyer physician
psychologist long and short is is they
keep good records about what they say
what they have done they do not want to
rely on their memory and you can't rely
on your memory you're gonna forget
things okay every 7 years your brain
breaks off this little nodule okay and
part of that you lose memory so it's
important to keep a record of things
that you've said and done because when
you have these adverse times in the
future as a trader because you're going
to you want to go back and reflect on
those times too
you forgot how you've been through that
before and what you did to go through
it's important contrast your personal
expectations of what you thought was
going to happen in the marketplace and
how you were going to do versus the
actual result this is where you get to
be more or less than the scorekeeper
you're able to soberly and balanced give
a an opinion about what you did in terms
of your analysis going into the day for
the week and then what actually happened
now
you're not in this section of journaling
to beat yourself up that's not what this
is but what you're trying to do is
highlight the things that you missed but
you don't want to draw so much attention
to it that it seems like you're writing
you know a suicide letter like you know
I'm no good um this or that what you
want to be doing is is highlighting the
opportunities for you to develop the
better or spend more time focusing on in
your weaknesses because that's what
journaling helps you do it identifies
your weaknesses you if you were too
honest with yourself you probably would
have about ten things that you could
list as a weakness but you're probably
gonna have four to five times more than
that that you won't really readily
discover until you go through the
journaling process and it's not
something you do for a short term and
then you abandon it you always do this
I've been doing it for 25 years and I
did journaling before that and other
things in my life so to me it's it's
something I've always done and you don't
need to spend a whole lot of time doing
it but I've always made a reference to
what I've done or said in the previous
day at the end of the day in other words
I'm looking back in reflection otherwise
if I try to go to bed my mind will not
allow me to because my mind's gonna race
I should write this down in many times I
have tried to go to bed even after
journaling and I have something on my
mind I can't do it until I get up and I
write that down on my journal because
then it's I've released it and the only
way you're going to trade with a emotion
free or as close as you
and a well-balanced mine is to have a
clear conscience anything that's
bothering you you release it into your
journal your journals not gonna call you
a name it's not gonna say it wants a
divorce it's not gonna say you don't
love me enough or you don't spend time
with me enough okay it's only gonna say
what you write in it so when you go back
to it it's going to say the words that
you put in so it's important to what you
put in it is gonna benefit you but
you're not sure coding it either so you
want to be honest about your evaluation
about what you did or thought going into
the day or the week and then what the
actual results were keep it simple all
you're doing is this is what I thought
and this is what actually happened
you're not using adjectives you're just
stating the facts this is what I thought
was going to happen I thought I was
gonna go here I thought was gonna have
this effect I was going to move this
much and this is what the actual result
was and you're not adding anything to it
or attaching any emotionalism to it okay
you want to detail where you felt
uncertainty and this is important how
you actually coped with it you're gonna
find that many of your coping skills for
stress aren't really coping skills
they're actually feeding that emotional
stimuli and it creates even more stress
the only way you're gonna find that is
by actually recording it writing it down
and you may be in a trade and it may be
flirting with your limit order and
you've already had your profits taken
for the most part scaled out your
stop-loss is child up now but now you're
feeling like it's going you hit your
stop and you know I'm gonna get that
last piece of the move what are you
doing to cope with that are you staring
at the chart screaming or are you taking
a walk or are you turning the computer
off and then saying I'm gonna see what
happens at the end of the day you know
come hell or high water it's gonna take
my stop or it's gonna take my limit or
it's gonna trade sideways until the next
session and then whatever it's gonna
happen is gonna happen
whatever that coping mechanism is that
you
used for that stress trigger you want to
include that because it's important the
ones that do not work you're gonna see
in that way when you start feeling that
stress trigger come up you immediately
discount that felt process to follow
that same regimen again if it's
something that hasn't worked in the past
and it's maintained a stressful level
and you know you're wanting to think
about it or do that same thing again
like smoke cigarettes okay or grab a
drink that's alcoholic those things you
may feel like they're soothing you but
actually they're not so what you wanna
be doing is focusing on when the coping
mechanism that you've used to get
through that stressful environment when
it helps you it's highlighted on an
opportunity for you to use that in the
future and here's the thing many times
I've learned coping skills that were in
high stressful events through trading
when I had stressful events and my
personal life I used those same coping
skills so for instance you know while
I'm trading I usually have a deck of
cards in my hands I'm a fidgeter okay
and now they have these things called
these fidget spinners which I had loved
them I absolutely loved them for me it
keeps me distracted from worrying about
what next moves gonna be in price I'm
allowing my method to pan out and do
what it's gonna do before I did that I
used to have a coin I'd always keep a
coin in my hand and I'd either roll it
through my fingers or I would just keep
it pressed in my palm and I would just
practice palming okay because I've some
of them amateur magician nonetheless I
would do those things to keep me
distracted and not being hypersensitive
to every fluctuation in the marketplace
so whatever the coping skills are okay
that you find work in high stressful
environment of trading I found that they
were they were just as equally effective
in high stressful environments like when
my son was in surgery you know I would
take it to cards and I would fidget with
those or I would have coin in my hand
and it would just keep me distracted
enough where I had to go through that
experience I couldn't escape it just
like you can't escape the trade unless
you just kill it if you're going to take
the trade you have to
through the trade either it takes your
stop or it takes your limit but you have
to submit to that so whatever it takes
for you to submit to that overtime these
coping skills that you will find that
there really isn't a this is what you do
because it's only gonna work for you
when you discover it works for you it
may be something as simple as having
something your hands to fidget and maybe
something that it requires you to
completely step away from the charts and
grab a book you know my mind personally
I can't read if I'm in the market you
know I can't do that I have to read when
there's no one talking to me and I'll
have complete silence so whatever those
things are that you discover through
journaling to help you and your trading
don't look at it as that's your fix for
trading stress many times if you apply
it to your stressful personal life it
fixes it as well
what's many times is that's a plus you
want to use positive words for the
things you did well on you don't want to
sugarcoat it you won't say you know I'm
the best trader in the world because I
did this but you do want to say I'm
happy with my execution with this trade
because I did this and I had that in
mind and I did exactly as my plan
outlined and I did not deviate I'm glad
that I used the 25 pip stop-loss and
didn't try to get short and sweet with
it with a 15 or 10 pip stop I followed
my rules regardless of what the trade
was doing anything that you did that was
predetermined and you follow through
with it you want to record that in your
own words and use adjectives like happy
or pleased or proud
okay those types of things because your
minds gonna retain that and when you go
back to it this is where it's important
when you come back to your journal and
you read those things you certainly
don't want to litter it with things that
are just gonna be mundane or not
impactful you want to be well you want
to cheerlead yourself basically because
there's going to be times when you're
gonna go through periods of drawdown and
it's gonna feel like trading is the
worst thing you could have ever done so
you want to have
that old friend of your conscience to
feel soothed when you read your own
words in your journal you don't want to
read it like well you know I really
didn't feel well that day and I'm lying
to myself in there you want to be honest
but you also want to be well you wanna
be comforting to yourself but you don't
want to sugarcoat and you don't want to
embellish and lie about how you did
something right when you really didn't
you want to be accurate about what
you're describing but you also want to
do it in a positive light and here is
the kicker when you do things messed up
okay and you do the wrong things and you
make errors you want to avoid negatively
charged words where ever you struggled
in the execution or the application of
money management or your leveraging or
if you ever traded you do not want to
say oh I'm a stupid so-and-so or I am a
failure or I'm never going to get this
do not do those things in your journal
because your mind will latch on to that
and whatever you use negative words on
your subconscious is gonna see that and
say okay well this is a problem or it's
a source of stress so I'm going to avoid
it so what's going to happen when you
look at the charts
subconsciously your mind is going to say
this is stressful I want to avoid this
and you're not going to pay attention
and or your mind is not going to let
that set up jump off at this chart at
you so that way you can engage it
properly so it's very important not to
use negative terms so while this is not
an exhaustive list I wanted to have some
measure of journaling suggestions and I
wanted to have some measure of
psychological well solutions
and both of these topics can be really
explored in greater detail and it comes
by personal experience and while there's
a lot of books written about both that's
ugh the subject matter that I mentioned
here tonight I don't think it's
something that you need to make any more
complicated than what I have here
because this is really the bare bones of
what I've done for 25 years and the best
trading book out there is the one you're
about to write in your journal that's
the best one because they're going to be
directly related to you and your own
experiences
you can't teach your experience to
someone else you can talk about it you
can share it you can share your journal
let them read it but it still won't have
the same impact that your experience has
for you and that's the wonderful
treasure and well secret weapon if you
will of a trader by using a journal it
seems like extra work it seems frivolous
oh I got time for that who does that
well I'll tell you who does it
winning traders do it and we know what
we're looking for because we've studied
it we've had days and days and days on
end where we have recorded the same
exact setup the same winning attitude
that we went into is always there so
these are all signatures these are
hallmarks of classic setups so that way
when you start feeling a certain way
going into the market day if you're not
Owen you'll know it and you'll be honest
with yourself and say okay I got to not
be in the market today I got to take a
day off otherwise how would you know
those things because you're gonna talk
yourself into taking a trade if you're
feeling bad that's the normal response
for a human distract me I need a
distraction
what's a better distraction than getting
money nothing so you want to play the
lottery it's time for casino so many
times that results in a negative
withdrawal from your equity whether it
be demo or live and we want to try to
avoid those things okay so what type of
thing
we look for in terms of adding charts to
our journal and then we can go through
the charts now and give you some
suggestions alright so this is the
Canadian dollars the daily chart and
this particular week I was looking for
the market to want to run above there's
equal highs and I'll have that actually
in recording so you can go back and look
at that but we have double tops and a
third time the market trades up to this
same level so we know that this is too
clean of a level we had a nice rejection
down here so markets most likely gonna
want to push above this level now if
it's so clean like that what's the most
likely outcome should it trade to that
level a blast off and continue higher or
retreating back down into the range oh
look what's happened we've had a
sell-off people have made money there so
now let's sell off people have me money
and now we're going right back up to
those levels again so to take those
individuals out or put new traders in on
the wrong side buying the market's going
to want to push up there so in your
journal when you start seeing these
things you want to print out your chart
or screen capture it and in your
notations you want to write down what
you think is going to happen what's the
most likely outcome okay so that we have
a condition that we can wait against
what actually happens later on but you
want to build the context in your chart
and your journaling so that way when you
go back and look at it if it pans out
well you're gonna be encouraged in the
future when you have periods with time
when your trades don't actually pan out
okay and soon as the event that you've
been waiting for occurs like I share a
lot of my trades at the time of the
setup or the confirmation if you will of
whatever I'm looking for that sets the
ID a lot this many times is the screen
capture where either hits a level I was
reaching for or a level I'm trying to
get in it this is where you want to take
a picture of it again and this is why I
don't do 28 pairs or a lot of different
markets because I'm only focusing on two
things cable and fiber so it's very easy
for me to the
dialing and get the screen capture what
I'm looking for and then I don't share
my chart with all the notations on it
because there's a lot of things that I
do in my own finances and in my own
trading that I don't make public so but
I do make references to the things I'm
talking about here in terms of okay this
is the run on the buy stops so I'm right
now I would say I would have an
expectation of seeing a strong reversal
and I would look for price don't want to
reach down into those wicks here and see
how far we can go in as far as that low
here and now we can start dropping down
into a four-hour chart and working to an
intraday price action and we can see how
noting areas of stops because if we
thought that price is going to go up all
these highs here again we give more
details about what we're looking for the
time of day that this occurred and how
long of a timeframe we would reasonably
expect to see this move take place if
we're going to run out this low all
those things you can add in all these
open spaces on your chart you want to
make it personal you want to make your
journal and your charts something that's
unique that you're comfortable with and
it's something that you're really not
aiming to share with anybody it's
comfortable for you to be able to look
at and it gives you all the information
at the time what you were thinking at
the time at the time the chart was
creating the very setup that's being
screen captured okay dropping down to a
30-minute chart same mindset here we're
adding any details that we're noticing
okay and we're here we have Monday's
trading and the anticipated rally up
once we see those types of things we
know that this is the setup so we want
to be a seller up here but where are we
gonna be reaching for what's the draw on
price so you want to have that before
the trade really starts to unfold as its
setting up you want to get extreme
capture but at that time you also want
to outline what you're reaching for and
what was the context behind why you
would expect it to occur we have an old
low here got twenty and ten pip grades
of
swing that would be expected to go below
it in here just for the sake of keeping
the chart neat on this the referencing
tempest below that low and on Monday
because I don't like to trade on Monday
I would like to use that Monday range
and project it like the power three
study that was used I'll tell you in the
Asian session and or power three and I
would take that Monday range if I'm
bearish looking for that run I'm going
to take that range of Monday and apply
it right on top of its daily high and
that gives me a projected range of one
standard deviation and we take that out
in the future it's approximately what
Tuesday's high of the day is so I know
that I'm looking for a Judas swing so
how far will it go up well it could go
this far which would take us right above
that old high at 129 10 where it touch
three times and that's where the buy
sauce will be residing so we're looking
for a move above that so it could be a
seller right there but before we do that
we have to remember if this is in fact a
bearish week and this is the weekly high
forming this Judas swing is useful and
we can apply power three concepts to it
we can get the range of the Judah swing
and apply it in one standard deviation
below the low in other words I'm taking
this range and adding it or in this case
subtracting it from this low and
projecting it down you give me one
standard deviation so we're seeing power
3 which is accumulation accumulate more
manipulation run the stops put them in
by side we're gonna see hopefully I
moved down with power three with
distribution and a final area
distribution down here so we have three
measurements of the actual Judah swing
projected down and that gives us just
below that old low so that validates
this potential stop run while prices
like this only we don't have anything
else capping yet so we have power three
scaled out accumulation manipulation and
distribution
framed before the move even occurs you
can see that 10 pips below this low is
what we're looking for so 10 pips below
that we're gonna have a little level
there and now we see Wednesday's trading
and during the New York setup we have a
optimal trade entry form and we can run
projections on the fit we can see
there's a 400 extension overlapping
exactly with one of the levels we've
already arrived at and then here's
Wednesday gives an optimal trade entry
short-term swing here trades back up
athol trade entry short sells off
aggressively and reaches down into our
10 pip sweep below the Oliv low and
we're going to get a measurement from
the highest body to the lowest body and
these two price swings and that
projection down gives us exactly a 300
extension right there and it actually
gives you the low today which actually
overlaps with the approximate 10 pips
swing below the old low so we have
several things being used here that I've
given you in the recent teachings every
one of these screen captures you would
write down any notation that would be
necessary for you to have as a benefit
and that way when you go to the end of
the week usually on Saturday morning for
me may not be Saturday for you but I
like to take about thirty minutes and go
through to the market and see what I
didn't see and note that but every day
I'm writing down what my expectations
are what the daily high-low should be
and then I'm recording what actually
happened and it builds a lot of
confidence seeing how many times I'm
right and when I'm wrong even though I
learned something from the well the time
I was not accurate
it proves that I'm more right than I'm
wrong so therefore I don't fear being
wrong and I used the times when I'm
wrong to learn what it is I did wrong so
I'm taking no pain out of the experience
I'm looking at it as okay this is
actually like a workout okay I'm
strengthening myself I'm I'm putting
stress on my body with the attempt to
make it stronger okay so I don't look at
adverse --'tis in trading as a defeat I
look at it as exercise and strengthening
iron sharpens iron so we can see how
using the tools here we get one more
instance well this could be the very
weekly low okay if we trade through it
so be it but if this is all I would ever
get that's fine because this would be
power three applied to the weekly range
okay and I apply that to weekly it's on
the opening vertical line if you hit
control Y and I use the thickest
trendline to draw right on top of that
then I delete the actual control wide
line and I draw a little horizontal tick
representing the open and I forecast
where I think the close is gonna be and
it doesn't have to be words you actually
gonna close I like to do that just to
keep myself entertained and trying to
dial in as best I can for where I
project the close sometimes I'm really
accurate and other times I'm not so
accurate but I'm more inclined to focus
on what if I'm bearish what the highs
going to be and how far of a reasonable
objective how low it can go if it keeps
going lower who cares
long and short it is is I want to have
an opportunity that get some kind of
range expansion and on Wednesday we can
also see that there was no return back
to that opening price on Sunday
once it moved away from it on the new
york session set up we accelerated away
from it there's a lot of things that
took place in the dollar cad this week
yet we have outlined before they are
hallmarks to the things I've taught you
and we did in fact run there's equal
highs out as I mentioned in the higher
time frame scenario and conditions
video for this for xmas set of videos
for 2017
so hopefully you enjoyed this
presentation if you'd like to find more
you can visit my website at the inner
circle trader.com